=== Mode Editor

The Mode Editor is used to create and edit
link:concept.html#FixtureMode[modes] by picking sets of *Channels* in
certain order (as defined by the fixture's manufacturer). Each editor
window is divided into three tabs: Channels, Heads and Physical.

==== Channels Tab

In the Channels tab you can place the fixture's channels in an order
that forms an actual representation of the DMX channels that the fixture
understands when it has been configured in that particular mode.

image:../images/fixtureeditor_mode_channels.png[../images/fixtureeditor_mode_channels,width=500] +

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|===
|*Mode Name* |The name of the mode (must be unique for each mode).

|*Channel list* |Displays all channels present in the current mode in
their proper order. +
The "Acts on" column is used to bind a channel to another. For example a
channel that controls the speed of a rotating gobo.

|image:../icons/edit_add.png[../icons/edit_add] a|
Add channels from the fixture's channel collection to the mode. You can
create/edit channels in the link:fixtureeditor.html[Fixture Editor's]
*Channels* tab. +
When you click on this button a new window will be displayed, showing
two lists:

* The list on the left shows the channels that have not yet been added
to this mode. If you're creating a new mode, this list will show all the
channels you created in the Fixture Editor's channels tab
* The list on the right shows the channels that define the mode you're
editing. If you're creating a new mode, this list will be empty. +
Please note that the order of the channels in this list is fundamental
to the fixture mode definition.

To move items from one list to another either use the central buttons or
simply drag and drop them. +
When done, press OK to update the mode channel list.

|image:../icons/edit_remove.png[../icons/edit_remove] |Remove the
selected channels from the mode. Other modes' channel selections are
left untouched.

|image:../icons/up.png[../icons/up] |Raise the selected channel up by
one position.

|image:../icons/down.png[../icons/down] |Lower the selected channel down
by one position.
|===

==== Heads Tab

In the Heads tab you can define multiple link:concept.html#Head[heads]
for a single fixture, so that QLC+ knows to treat each of them
individually in certain situations (such as
link:concept.html#FixtureGroup[Fixture Groups]). If a fixture contains
only one head when it's configured to use the currently edited mode
(i.e. all of the mode's channels control one head at a time) there is no
need to define the head. If, however, the fixture has multiple heads
that you wish to be able to control, you must define each head here.

Heads don't have names as they can be thought of as simple
"sub-fixtures" inside a fixture. Instead, they are automatically given
index numbers. The ordering of the Heads should follow the physical
fixture's configuration as closely as possible. So, if the heads go 1,
2, 3, 4 in the real world, don't define them as 4, 2, 1, 3 or something
equally annoying.

image:../images/fixtureeditor_mode_heads.png[../images/fixtureeditor_mode_heads,width=500] +

[cols=",",]
|===
|*Head list* |Displays the list of heads currently defined for the
fixture.

|image:../icons/edit_add.png[../icons/edit_add] |Add a new head to the
fixture, using the link:#edit_head[Head Editor].

|image:../icons/edit_remove.png[../icons/edit_remove] |Remove the
selected head from the fixture.

|image:../icons/edit.png[../icons/edit] |Edit the selected head using
the link:#edit_head[Head Editor].

|image:../icons/up.png[../icons/up] |Raise the selected head upwards by
one. You can use this to change the order of the heads within the
fixture.

|image:../icons/down.png[../icons/down] |Lower the selected head
downwards by one. You can use this to change the order of the heads
within the fixture.
|===

[[edit_head]]
===== Head Editor

The Head Editor is used to create and edit link:concept.html#Head[heads]
by picking sets of *Channels* that are dedicated to a single head (as
defined by the fixture's manufacturer).

Editing a head is very simple: place a checkmark on each channel that is
used ONLY by the head you are currently editing. Note that you should
check the channels specific to a head, and nothing more. For example if
there are 3 heads each with a dedicated dimmer control, then you should
include the dimmer channel too. If, instead, the fixture has a single
dimmer channel to control the intensity of all the heads together, then
do not incude it in the head definition.

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|===
|image:../images/fixtureeditor_mode_edit_head.png[../images/fixtureeditor_mode_edit_head]
a|
[cols=",",]
!===
!*Channel list* !Displays the list of all fixture channels available in
the current mode. Channels that have been assigned to another head are
disabled and cannot be selected because each channel can only belong to
one head at a time.
!===

|===

==== Physical Tab

This tab is identical to the _global_
link:fixturedefinitioneditor.html#physical[physical tab] found in the
main Fixture editor windows. +
The only difference is that here you can choose if the mode you're
editing has the same physical information or different ones. +
In the first case just leave the *"Use global settings"* option checked.
If the mode exposes different properties, then check the *"Override
global settings"* option and fill in all the information required.

