== image:../icons/fixture.png[../icons/fixture,width=32] Fixture Manager

The fixture manager is the heart of QLC+'s fixture-oriented
architecture. As its name already says, you can manage (add, remove and
edit) your lighting fixtures from the fixture manager. On the left side
of the manager there is a list that displays all of the fixtures in the
current workspace. When a fixture is selected, the right side of the
window displays the details of the selected fixture. When a
link:concept.html#FixtureGroup[Fixture Group] is selected, the right
side of the window is occupied by the
link:fixturegroupeditor.html[Fixture Group Editor].

=== Controls

[cols=",",]
|===
|image:../icons/edit_add.png[../icons/edit_add] |Add new
link:concept.html#Fixtures[Fixture](s) to the workspace with the
link:addeditfixtures.html[Add/Edit Fixture] dialog.

|image:../icons/rgbpanel.png[../icons/rgbpanel] |Add a RGB panel to the
workspace with with the link:addrgbpanel.html[Add RGB Panel] dialog.

|image:../icons/edit_remove.png[../icons/edit_remove] |Remove the
selected fixtures from the workspace. This also removes the fixtures
from ALL groups they have been assigned to.

|image:../icons/configure.png[../icons/configure] |Edit the currently
selected fixture's properties with the
link:addeditfixtures.html[Add/Edit Fixture] dialog.

|image:../icons/fade.png[../icons/fade] |Opens the
link:channelproperties.html[Channel Properties Configuration] window.

|image:../icons/group.png[../icons/group] |Assign the selected fixtures
to a link:concept.html#FixtureGroup[Fixture Group] displayed in a popup
menu. If you have no groups defined yet, you can choose to create a new
one from the menu that opens when this button is clicked.

|image:../icons/ungroup.png[../icons/ungroup] |Resign (remove) the
selected fixtures from the group they are currently in. Note that
removing fixtures from a group will NOT destroy the fixtures completely.
Also, removal from one group will not affect the fixtures' memberships
to other groups.

|image:../icons/up.png[../icons/up] |Move the selected Channel Group up

|image:../icons/down.png[../icons/down] |Move the selected Channel Group
down

|image:../icons/fileimport.png[../icons/fileimport] |Imports a fixture
list file (.qxfl) into QLC+. Please note that fixture addresses
conflicts are not handled, so it is suggested to use this functionality
on an empty project.

|image:../icons/fileexport.png[../icons/fileexport] |Exports the list of
fixtures currently available on a QLC+ project into a file with
extension .qxfl. This file can be used afterward with the import
functionality.

|image:../icons/remap.png[../icons/remap] |Opens the
link:fixturesremap.html[Fixtures remapping] window.
|===

