=== Adding Fixtures

==== Fixture Manager

*Open the fixture manager by clicking its
image:../icons/fixture.png[../icons/fixture] button on the main toolbar.
Alternatively you can select [.underline]#Fixtures# from the
[.underline]#Manager# menu.*

The fixture manager is the heart of QLC+ fixture-oriented architecture.
As its name already says, you can manage (add, remove and edit) your
lighting fixtures from the fixture manager. On the left side of the
manager there is a list that contains all of the fixtures in the current
workspace (currently it's empty). On the right side you can see some
common information related to the currently selected fixture. On top of
the fixture manager there is again another toolbar, containing the
following buttons (from left to right):

'''''

image:../icons/edit_add.png[../icons/edit_add] Add new fixtures +
image:../icons/edit_remove.png[../icons/edit_remove] Remove selected
fixtures +
image:../icons/configure.png[../icons/configure] Configure the selected
fixture +
image:../icons/group.png[../icons/group] Group a fixture selection +
image:../icons/ungroup.png[../icons/ungroup] Ungroup a fixture from a
group +
image:../icons/fileimport.png[../icons/fileimport] Import a previously
saved list of fixtures +
image:../icons/fileexport.png[../icons/fileexport] Export a list of
fixtures +

'''''

==== Adding a fixture

*Add a fixture to the workspace by clicking the
image:../icons/edit_add.png[../icons/edit_add] add button.*

On the left side of the dialog you can see a list of available fixture
manufacturers. Each manufacturer item is actually a folder containing a
number of fixture models produced by the manufacturer. You can find for
example a "DJScan250" under the "Futurelight" folder. As you click a
fixture from the list, you can see the [.underline]#Channels# field on
the right side change to display the number of DMX channels required by
the selected fixture. There's also a list of the fixture's channels just
under the [.underline]#Channels# box.

You can edit the new fixture's name in the [.underline]#Name# field or
you can stick to the default that the application suggests. If the
fixture has different operational modes (different sets of channels),
you can select one from the [.underline]#Mode# box. The fixture's DMX
address can be set in the [.underline]#Address# field and should be the
same as the actual physical fixture's DMX address. The
[.underline]#Universe# field is used to assign the fixture to a physical
DMX output universe. Usually each universe has its own cable coming from
the computer.

If you wish to add multiple fixtures of the same type, you can increase
the value in the [.underline]#Amount# box. If you wish to leave some gap
between each fixture's address space, you can change the value in the
[.underline]#Address gap# box.

If you don't understand the DMX addressing principles, please consult
your lighting equipment manuals for more information. In short, a DMX
address is the first DMX channel of one fixture. In the case of a
DJScan250 (which uses 6 channels), assigning for example 1 as its DMX
address, reserves channels 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 to the fixture. The next
fixture must then be assigned to DMX address 7 to prevent channel
overlapping.

==== Adding a generic dimmer

Dimmers are a bit special devices, since all they can usually do is just
adjust the intensities of their channels (that usually drive PAR cans
and the like). If you wish to add such a device, select the
[.underline]#Generic dimmer# fixture from the list and specify the
number of channels you wish the device to employ into the
[.underline]#Channels# box. Note that you cannot adjust the mode for
dimmers and the channel list stays empty all the time.

==== Back to the fixture manager

*Click OK to close the dialog and add the selected fixture(s) to the
workspace.*

On the left side of the fixture manager you can now see the fixture(s)
that you just added. On the right side, you can see information on the
currently selected fixture. You can edit the fixture's name, address and
universe by clicking the Configure button. You can also change the
fixture definition thru the configuration dialog.
