=== Audio Editor

The audio editor, as its name suggests, is used to edit
image:../icons/audio.png[../icons/audio] link:concept.html#Audio[Audio]
functions. +
It offers basic controls and shows information about the attached audio
file.

==== Controls

[cols=",",]
|===
|image:../icons/player_play.png[../icons/player_play] |Start/stop the
audio file playback. If the file doesn't exist, this button will have no
effect

|*Audio name* |Change the name of the Audio function. By default this is
set with the file name, until it is manually changed.

|*File name* |Displays the absolute path of the current file attached to
this Audio function. The source file can be changed by clicking on the
"..." button on the right side.

|*Duration* |Displays the audio file duration in the typical QLC+ way.
For example: 04m14s.22.

|*Channels* |Displays the number of channels detected from the attached
audio file. 2 means stereo and 1 means mono.

|*Sample Rate* |Displays the sample frequency of the attached audio
file, in Hertz. For example: 44100Hz, 48000Hz, etc

|*Bitrate* |Displays the bitrate of the attached audio file, in Kb/s.
Audio files can have a constant bitrate (CBR) or a variable bitrate
(VBR). In the latter case, an average bitrate is displayed.

|*Loop* |Loop audio playback until explicitly stopped.

|image:../icons/speed.png[../icons/speed] |Show/Hide the Speed Dial
widget, used to facilitate the audio fade in/out parameters tuning

|*Fade In* |Text box to enter a fade in time for the audio playback.
Times can be entered in a QLC+ way (e.g. 3s.55) or in seconds (e.g.
entering '2' and pressing Enter will turn into 02s.00)

|*Fade Out* |Text box to enter a fade out time for the audio playback.
Times can be entered like in the Fade In box

|*Audio Device* |Select a specific audio output device to be used to
play the attached audio file. This list is the same you can find in the
link:audio-input-output.html[Audio Input/Output panel]
|===

