== image:../icons/function.png[../icons/function,width=32] Function Manager

With the function manager you can manage all of your functions that do
the actual work of automating your lights. You can create new functions,
remove and edit existing ones as well as create copies of them. Controls
are on the upper part of the window; the lower part displays all of your
functions as well as the function editor for the currently selected
function (if any).

Each function type can be found under its own category: Scene for
scenes, EFX for EFX's etc. When a new function is created or an existing
one selected, the appropriate editor is chosen and displayed on the
right hand side of the Function Manager window. Changes made in the
editor pane are stored immediately in the functions themselves and no
additional OK clicks are required.

=== Controls

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|===
|image:../icons/scene.png[../icons/scene] |Create a new
link:concept.html#Scene[Scene] and edit it using the
link:sceneeditor.html[Scene Editor]. (Shortcut: CTRL+1)

|image:../icons/chaser.png[../icons/chaser] |Create a new
link:concept.html#Chaser[Chaser] and edit it using the
link:chasereditor.html[Chaser Editor]. (Shortcut: CTRL+2)

|image:../icons/sequence.png[../icons/sequence] |Create a new
link:concept.html#Sequencer[Sequence] and edit it using the
link:chasereditor.html[Chaser Editor]. (Shortcut: CTRL+3)

|image:../icons/efx.png[../icons/efx] |Create a new
link:concept.html#EFX[EFX] and edit it using the link:efxeditor.html[EFX
Editor]. (Shortcut: CTRL+4)

|image:../icons/collection.png[../icons/collection] |Create a new
link:concept.html#Collection[Collection] and edit it using the
link:collectioneditor.html[Collection Editor]. (Shortcut: CTRL+5)

|image:../icons/rgbmatrix.png[../icons/rgbmatrix] |Create a new
link:concept.html#RGBMatrix[RGB Matrix] and edit it using the
link:rgbmatrixeditor.html[RGB Matrix Editor]. (Shortcut: CTRL+6)

|image:../icons/script.png[../icons/script] |Create a new
link:concept.html#RGBScript[RGB Script] and edit it using the
link:rgbmscriptapi.html[RGB Script Editor]. (Shortcut: CTRL+7)

|image:../icons/audio.png[../icons/audio] |Create a new
link:concept.html#Audio[Audio] function to be used in
link:concept.html#Chaser[Chasers] or link:concept.html#Show[Shows].
(Shortcut: CTRL+8)

|image:../icons/video.png[../icons/video] |Create a new
link:concept.html#Video[Video] function to be used in
link:concept.html#Chaser[Chasers] or link:concept.html#Show[Shows].
(Shortcut: CTRL+9)

|image:../icons/folder.png[../icons/folder] |Create a new folder in the
selected category. (Shortcut: CTRL+L) A folder can be renamed by double
clicking on it. +
When a folder is selected, a newly created function will be added to it.
To move existing functions inside a folder, just select and drag them
into it. In the same way they can be moved outside a folder by dragging
them onto a category item. +
When deleting a folder, all the functions and subfolders contained into
it will be deleted as well. +
*Note:* Empty folders will not be saved into your project.

|image:../icons/autostart.png[../icons/autostart] |Open the Function
selection dialog to choose a startup function. The selected function
will be started every time QLC+ switches to operate mode. This is very
useful when running QLC+ in kiosk mode (thus using
link:commandlineparameters.html[-k or -p flags]) +
A special entry named "<No function>" is present to remove a previously
set startup function.

|image:../icons/wizard.png[../icons/wizard] |Start the
link:functionwizard.html[Function Wizard]. (Shortcut: CTRL+W)

|image:../icons/editcopy.png[../icons/editcopy] |Create a copy of each
of the selected functions. *Note*: cloning a Sequence will clone its
bound Scene too.

|image:../icons/editdelete.png[../icons/editdelete] |Permanently remove
the selected function(s).
|===

