=== Scene Editor

The scene editor, as its name suggests, is used to edit
image:../icons/scene.png[../icons/scene] link:concept.html#Scene[Scene]
functions. The editor is divided into tabs; with the first, *General*
tab, you control the list of fixtures and
link:concept.html#Channelgroups[channel groups] that take part in the
scene editing, together with the Scene name. +
All subsequent tabs are used to control the individual channel values
for each fixture and, if any are defined, the channels groups values.

==== General Tab Controls

On the left hand part of the screen, the buttons to control the fixtures
used in the scene are displayed. +

[cols=",",]
|===
|*Scene name* |Change the name of the scene.

|image:../icons/edit_add.png[../icons/edit_add] |Add an existing
link:concept.html#Fixtures[Fixture] to the scene.

|image:../icons/edit_remove.png[../icons/edit_remove] |Remove the
selected link:concept.html#Fixtures[Fixture(s)] from the scene.

|image:../icons/check.png[../icons/check] |Enable all channels of the
selected fixtures.

|image:../icons/uncheck.png[../icons/uncheck] |Disable all channels of
the selected fixtures.
|===

On the right hand part of the screen, the buttons to control the
link:concept.html#Channelgroups[channel groups] used in the scene are
displayed +

[cols=",",]
|===
|image:../icons/check.png[../icons/check] |Enable all the selected
channel groups.

|image:../icons/uncheck.png[../icons/uncheck] |Disable all the selected
channel groups.
|===

 +
*Hint:* It's useful to know that when a channels group is
checked/unchecked, the fixtures controlled by the group will be
automatically added to the left panel. The channels controlled by the
group will also be automatically enabled/disabled on each fixture.

==== Channel Groups Tabs

This tab will be displayed only if one or more channel groups are
selected in the General tab. +
Each Channel Group will be displayed with a quick macro access button
(link:concept.html#ClickAndGo[Click And Go] if supported), a label with
the group value, a fader and the name of the group.

==== Fixture Tabs

Each fixture is represented by its own tab that contains sliders for
each of the fixture's channels. Each channel can be enabled or disabled
with a check box at the top of the channel unit. The value of each
channel can be set either by typing the value to the edit box at the top
of the slider or by moving the slider. Channels that provide multiple
functions such as gobos, colors, etc. also have a button above the
channel slider - this button can be used to directly select a specific
function or capability provided by that channel. +
*Hint*: The keyboard shortcut to move between channels values edit boxes
is '*Tab*' to move to the right and '*Shift + Tab*' to move to the left.

===== Channel enabled/disabled status

If a channel has not been enabled, the scene will not touch that
particular channel's value, ever.

If a channel has been enabled, the scene will change that channel's
value to the value that is defined in the scene. This is useful, for
example, when you wish to control only the dimmer channel of a scanner
fixture - you wouldn't want the scene to touch the scanner's pan, tilt,
color or gobo channels when you just want to fade in or fade out with
the dimmer channel.

===== Controls

[width="100%",cols="50%,50%",]
|===
|image:../icons/check.png[../icons/check] |Enable all channels from the
current fixture. In all channels mode, select channels for all fixtures.

|image:../icons/uncheck.png[../icons/uncheck] |Disable all channels from
the current fixture. In all channels mode, disable channels for all
fixtures.

|image:../icons/back.png[../icons/back] |Go to the previous tab in the
view. If the first tab is selected, this will go to the last tab in the
view. Keyboard shortcut: '*ALT+Left*'

|image:../icons/forward.png[../icons/forward] |Go to the next tab in the
view. If the last tab is selected, this will go to the first tab in the
view. Keyboard shortcut: '*ALT+Right*'

|image:../icons/editcopy.png[../icons/editcopy] a|
The Copy functionality has 2 modes: +

Copy the values (and enabled/disabled states) of all channels in the
current fixture to the clipboard.

Copy only the selected channels (CTRL-clicked, yellow background) values
into the clipboard.

|image:../icons/editpaste.png[../icons/editpaste] |Paste the values from
clipboard to the current fixture. If no channels were selected during
'copy', then all the enabled/disabled states will be pasted along with
the channel values.

|image:../icons/editcopyall.png[../icons/editcopyall] a|
The 'Copy all' functionality has 2 modes: +

Copy all values (and enabled/disabled states) of all channels to all
other fixtures taking part in the scene.

Copy only the selected channels (CTRL-clicked, yellow background) values
to all the other fixtures taking part in the scene.

|image:../icons/color.png[../icons/color] |Launch a color tool to select
a specific color and set that color to the current fixture; This feature
is enabled only for fixtures that are capable of CMY/RGB color mixing.

|image:../icons/xypad.png[../icons/xypad] |Launch a position tool
(similar to link:vcxypad.html[XYPad] in Virtual console) to select a
head/mirror position for the current fixture; This feature is enabled
only for fixtures that have either pan or tilt channels. All heads of
current fixture will be changed to the same value.

|image:../icons/speed.png[../icons/speed] |Show/Hide the Speed Dial
widget, used to adjust the Scene parameters such as Fade In and Fade Out

|image:../icons/tabview.png[../icons/tabview] |Switch between "tab view"
and "all channels view". The first mode will display one tab for each
fixture, while the second will display a single tab for all the fixtures

|image:../icons/blind.png[../icons/blind] |Toggle blind mode for the
selected fixture.

|image:../icons/record.png[../icons/record] |Clone the current scene and
add a new step to the Chaser selected from the drop down list beside
this button
|===

