=== image:../icons/soloframe.png[../icons/soloframe] Virtual Console Solo Frame

A Solo Frame is almost exactly the same kind of a container as a normal
link:vcframe.html[Frame] in that can hold various widgets and other
frames inside. However, the difference with Solo Frame is that it treats
any link:vcbutton.html[Buttons] inside it differently by allowing
[.underline]#only one# button to be enabled at a time. For example,
consider you have *Button A* and *Button B* inside a Solo Frame with
*Button A* currently enabled. Next, you click button *Button B* which
automatically results in *Button A* being released, leaving now only
*Button B* enabled.

==== Configuration

Solo Frames can be configured with the properties
image:../icons/edit.png[../icons/edit] button found in the toolbar or by
double clicking the solo frame itself. +
 +
Other than the standard link:vcstylingplacement.html[styling & placement
options], Solo Frames have every link:vcframe.html[frame] additional
options: +

* *Frame name*: Allow you to assign an arbitrary label to the Solo
Frame. This will be displayed only when the "Show header" option is
enabled (see below).
* *Accept child widgets*: Allows you to add widgets to the Solo Frame.
* *Allow resizing*: Allow the Solo Frame height and width to be changed.
* *Show header*: Display a useful header composed of a button and a
label. The button allows you to expand/collapse the Solo Frame, which
can save a lot of Virtual Console space. The label will display the name
of the Frame.

And one other specific option: +

* *Mix sliders in playback mode*: When this option is enabled, the
link:vcslider.html[sliders] in *playback* mode are allowed to be enabled
at the same time. When moving a slider up, instead of instantly
cancelling the other running sliders, it will fade them out at the same
speed you are fading it up.

