=== Virtual Console Widget Styling & Placement

The colors, font, frame style, stacking order, size and placement of
widgets can be changed to better suit your vision of the perfect
lighting console. Most of these options, except for moving and resizing,
are available in the Virtual Console *Edit* menu, that is, they can be
accessed from the menu bar as well as from a popup menu by right
clicking a widget you wish to adjust.

*NOTE:* The Virtual Console widgets' styling and placement options are
available only when the application is in link:concept.html#Modes[Design
Mode].

==== Moving Widgets

Widgets can be moved simply by dragging them as if you were dragging any
icon on your desktop. Refer to your operating system manual on how to
drag items.

To move a widget from one frame to another frame, you need to move the
widget through the Virtual Console clipboard. Cut the widgets from the
first frame, then select another frame and paste the widgets into that
frame.

==== Resizing Widgets

Each widget has a special resize handle
image:../icons/resize.png[../icons/resize] on their lower right hand
corner that you can grab and then resize the widget as appropriate
simply by dragging the handle.

==== Widget Background

To change a widget's background color, choose *Color* from the
*Background* menu and select a color from the popup dialog. To set an
image as the widget's background, choose *Image* from the *Background*
menu and select an image file from the popup dialog.

To restore the default background color (and to clear an image), choose
*Default* from the *Background* menu.

*NOTE:* Some operating systems and/or visual themes do not allow manual
setting of background colors or images. Try changing the desktop theme
if you encounter this problem.

==== Widget Foreground

To change a widget's foreground color, choose *Color* from the
*Foreground* menu and select a color from the popup dialog.

Buttons can have an icon in the foreground, which will override any text
set as their name. To change a button's icon, select *Choose...* from
the *Icon* menu and select an image file from the popup dialog.

To restore the default background color (and to clear an icon if
applicable), choose *Default* from the *Background* menu.

*NOTE:* Some operating systems and/or visual themes do not allow manual
setting of foreground colors or images. Try changing the desktop theme
if you encounter this problem.

==== Widget Borders

To change the border style for a widget, you can choose either *Raised*
or *Sunken* from the *Border* menu. To completely remove the borders of
a widget, choose *None* from the *Border* menu.

*NOTE:* Some operating systems and/or visual themes do not allow manual
setting of borders. Try changing the desktop theme if you encounter this
problem.

==== Fonts

You can change the font for all child widgets of a frame at the same
time by changing the font of the frame itself. Alternatively, you can
change the font for each widget separately. Fonts can be changed by
selecting *Font...* from the *Font* menu. To restore the font back to
the widget's parent frame's font, select *Default* from the *Font* menu.

==== Widget Stacking Order

In addition to the normal 2-dimensions, vertical and horizontal, you can
also adjust widgets' placement in the 3rd dimension: depth. If you see a
widget going behind another control, you can *raise* the widget on top
of all other widgets by selecting *Raise* from the *Stacking Order*
menu. Likewise, if you wish to put a widget behind all other widgets,
you can select *Lower* from the *Stacking Order* menu.

